# belly-button-challenge

To create the web-based dashboard for Homework 14, I began by reading in the data from my json file using the D3 library and the URL provided in the homework. This was done in my first function called 'buildMetadata' in my javascript file. I extracted the metadata field from the data object using 'data.metadata'(defined at metadata), set the parameter of 'sample' and then used the 'filter' function to iterate through each instance in the 'metadata' array (defined as info). I used the d3 library to select the '#sample-metadata' filter that is defined in my HTML file (defined as panel) and lastly I created a loop to iterate through each key value pair and for each pair, append to a new h6 tag. Essentially what this function did was pull all the metadata information (id, ethnicity, etc) for all the individuals in the json dataset and allow the specific 'sample' (aka Demographic Info) to be fetched and displayed when called in the 'init' function based on the the user's ID selection with the dashboard dropdown panel.

My next step was to create a second function called 'buildCharts' which created both the horizontal bar chart and bubble chart visualizations, again I used 'sample' as my parameter so that the data displayed in visualizations was reflective of the 'sample' or ID selected by the user in the dropdown menu of the dashboard. I extracted the sample data into an array title 'samples' using 'data.sampls' and then used the 'filter' function to iterate through each instance of data in my array, the same way I did for my metadata in the first function. I additionally added an 'if' statement for debugging purposes. I grabbed the specific values I needed (out_ids, otu_labels, sample_values) from my sample_filter array and then began building out my individual visualizations. I first defined my bubble chart, set the out_id on the x-axis, and sample_values on the y-axis. The bubbles' color was determined by the specific bacteria type (aka out_ids) and the size was based on the prevalence of those specific bacterias (sample_values). I defined the text to equal the otu_labels, which allows the specific bacteria name and count to be displayed when the user hovers their mouse over a specific bubble. Last, I added a title and them rendered my chart using Plotly. For my second chart, I needed to first needed to map out my 'out_id's to a list of strings and did so using 'otu_ids.map' and an f-string so that my when otu_ids were displayed on my dashboard it read "OTU 994, OTU 405, etc" instead of just '994, 405, etc' to give more context to the values being displayed, I then defined this as my 'bar_y'. I set my 'sample_values' to my x-axis, my 'bar_y' to my y-axis and sliced/reversed my data so that the most prevalent bacteria counts were displayed first. I used a color scale instead of an single color to create a more engaging visualization and clearly communicate the count difference for different bacteria strains present. I added the same text I did in my bubble chart which allows the 'sample_values' to be shown when the user hovers over a specific bar in the chart and lastly, rendered my chart using Plotly. 

Next I created my 'init' function which served to initialize my dashboard by populating the dropdown menu, demographic info panel and rendering my charts based off the default, which is the first 'id' sample in the dataset. The dropdown is populated using the d3 library to select the '#selDataset' filter that is defined in my HTML, I added a 'for' loop for my dropdown menu to loop through all the names in my dataset and show them all as options in the dropdown, last I simply set a default value which is simply just the first name in the dataset. I then rendered my charts using the same default value I used for my dropdown menu. 

Last, I added a function for my event listener called 'optionChanged' with the paramenter 'newSample'. I re-rendered my charts here and this function simply serves to 'listen' to any user interaction on the dashboard (aka a user selecting a different name from the dropdown menu' and then update the charts and demograpic info panel to reflect the data connected to the name the user selected. My final step was to call my 'init' function, this is necessary to initialize the dashboard. 
